you're watching Al we're going to take
you to Tokyo for US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is speaking at the G7
fign ministers meeting Minister for
Japan's leadership during this hisor
year from
G7 the G7 has strengthened its role as
the steering committee of the world's
Advanced
democracies demonstrating unprecedented
Unity of purpose and unity of action on
the issues that are defining the 21st
century and at another moment of intense
challenge for the Free World our
security and our values um G7 Unity is
stronger and more important than
ever our first Focus here in Tokyo was
the crisis in the Middle East uh
yesterday evening I had an opportunity
to brief my colleagues on my travel
through the region as well as extensive
engagements by President Biden and our
entire National Security
team uh the G7 ministers reaffirmed our
staunch support for Israel's right and
obligation to to defend itself and seek
to ensure the attacks of October 7th can
never happen again in accordance with
International humanitarian
law we had in-depth discussions about
the steps that we are taking to address
urgent needs on the ground we all agreed
that humanitarian pauses would Advance
key objectives to protect Palestinian
civilians to increase the sustained flow
of humanitarian assistance to allow our
citizens and foreign Nationals to exit
and to facilitate the release of hos
ages I briefed my colleagues about my
conversations with Israeli leaders on
pauses and on concrete steps to minimize
harm to Palestinian civilians in Gaza
and to stop extremist violence in the
West
Bank Israel has repeatedly told us that
there is no going back to October 6th
before the barbaric attacks by Hamas we
fully agree as we work with Israel to
ensure this we also are working in the
region to deter broader threats to our
partners and to our friends as the
president has said to anyone seeking to
take advantage of the crisis in Gaza and
spread conflict to other theaters
don't all of us want to end this
conflict as soon as possible and
meanwhile to minimize civilian suffering
but as I discussed with my G7 colleagues
those calling for an immediate ceasefire
have an obligation to explain how to
address the unacceptable result it would
likely bring about Hamas left in place
with more than 200 hostages with the
capacity and stated intent to repeat
October 7th again and again and
again ultimately the only way to ensure
that this crisis never happens again is
to begin setting the conditions for
durable peace and security and to frame
our diplomatic efforts now with that in
mind the United States believes key
elements should include no forcible
displacement of Palestinians uh from
Gaza not now not after the
war no use of Gaza as a platform for
terrorism or other violent attacks no
reoccupation of Gaza after the conflict
ends no attempt to blockade or besiege
Gaza no reduction in the territory of
Gaza we must also ensure no terrorist
threats can emanate from the West
Bank we must also work on the
affirmative elements to get to a
sustained peace these must include the
Palestinian people's voices and
aspirations at the center of post crisis
governance in Gaza it must include
Palestinian Le governance uh and Gaza
unified with the West Bank under the
Palestinian Authority and it must
include a sustained mechanism for
reconstruction in Gaza and a pathway to
Israelis and Palestinians living side by
side in states of their own with equal
measures of security Freedom opportunity
and
dignity even as we focus intensely on
addressing these urgent challeng
challenges we believe that the time is
now to start the conversation about the
future not tomorrow not after the war
today because identifying the longer
term objectives and a pathway to get
there will help shape our approach to
addressing immediate
needs uh I know it's hard to look ahead
in this moment it is the aim of
terrorists to sew chaos to destroy hope
to destroy lives and through human
despair grow their ranks and hijack the
political future of the Palestinians we
cannot and we will not let them
succeed today we also focused on our
enduring support for Ukraine the G7 has
led the world in galvanizing and
sustaining that support and as we told
foreign minister CBA today Ukraine can
count on
us to put Ukraine on a solid foundation
for the next year we must help Ukraine
do four things at once first keep
fighting to win back its territory
second build a world-class military
force to ensure maximum deterrence for
the long term and make clear to
President Putin that he cannot and will
not Outlast Ukraine and he cannot and
will not Outlast all of Ukraine's
supporters 28 countries have made
concrete commitments to join us in this
effort of building a Ukrainian fighting
force for the
future third Kickstart economic recovery
and growth and bring more hope more
opportunity to the Ukrainian people and
fourth accelerate the reform process to
speed Ukraine's path to the European
Union and to attract investment all of
these steps are designed to help Ukraine
stands strongly on its own two
feet we also discussed at length the
indopacific and steps we're taking
together to contend with challenges to
our shared vision of a free open
prosperous secure and resilient region
uh we spoke about the PRC we agreed on
the importance of working constructively
on shared challenges but also being
clear and direct with China on our
different differences we'll continue to
Der risk our economies to strengthen our
resilience to push back on economic
coercion we'll also continue to stand up
to China over its actions in the South
and East China Seas we of course oppose
unilateral or coercive efforts to change
the status quo with Taiwan our
conversation today demonstrated an
unprecedented degree of alignment among
the G7 on our approach to
China we also discussed the dprk's
provocative actions and missile launches
and dangerous dprk Russia military
cooperation we're deeply concerned about
what Russia is providing Pyongyang in
return for the weapons and Munitions
that it's getting from pongyang will
continue to push for the full
implementation of all relevant un
Security Council resolutions and
commitments to uphold the global
non-proliferation
order a major theme throughout our
meetings was how we can leverage our
full economic political and development
strength to deepen ties with developing
countries and deliver for people around
the
world through the partnership for Global
infrastructure and investment we're
mobilizing $600 billion in high quality
transparent infrastructure projects
worldwide by 2027 we're unlocking
hundreds of billions of new lending
capacity for the World Bank the
international monetary fund for things
like climate resilience public health
and other key
priorities we're also working to shape a
more inclusive International System
supporting reform of the UN Security
Council making the International
Financial system more responsive to the
needs of low and middle- inome countries
bringing more voices to the table here
at the G7 as for example with today's
meeting with Central Asian
Partners uh later today I'll travel to
the Republic of Korea and then on to
India to our most important Partners in
the indopacific even as we're engaged
intensively on the Urgent challenges of
this moment the United States remains
focused on advancing the interest of the
American people in every part of the
world on issues that matter in their
lives
at this inflection point in the struggle
to protect the international order we
are standing strong for our vision of a
more free secure open and prosperous
world and we do not stand alone we built
extraordinary coalitions with allies and
partners who carry their share of the
burden and we leave this G7 meeting
stronger and more united in meeting the
challenges of today thank you with that
I'll take some questions first question
goes to Courtney Courtney McBride with
bloom
thank you good evening Mr secretary um
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu said
that his government would maintain
security control of Gaza for quote an
indefinite period end quote how do you
reconcile th those comments to previous
statements by both the US and Israeli
governments posing a reoccupation of
Gaza and then uh you addressed this a
bit but um other G7 members have
expressed support for a full ceasefire
uh in the Israel Hamas War um while the
US continues to support just these
humanitarian pauses
um and I'm just wondering did you
convince the other members of the US
position or is this uh joint statement
language just the the sort of minimal
consensus area thank you thanks Courtney
so I think we've been very clear from
day one that when it comes to
postconflict governance in Gaza um a few
things are are clear and necessary one
uh Gaza cannot be uh continue to be run
by Hamas um uh that simply invites a
repid ition of October 7th uh and Gaza
uses a place from which to launch
terrorist attacks uh it's also clear
that Israel cannot occupy Gaza um now
the reality is that there may be uh a
need for some transition period uh at
the end of the conflict but it is
imperative that um the Palestinian
people uh be Central to uh to governance
uh in uh in Gaza and in the West Bank as
well uh and that again uh we we don't
see uh a reoccupation and what I've
heard from Israeli leaders is that they
have no intent to reoccupy Gaza and
retake control of Gaza so the only
question is uh are is there some
transition period uh that might be
necessary and what might be the
mechanisms uh that you could put in
place for that uh to make sure that
there is security uh but we're very
clear on no reoccupation just as we're
very clear on uh no displacement of the
Palestinian population
uh and um as as we've said before uh we
need to see and get to uh in effect
Unity of governance when it comes to
Gaza and the West Bank and ultimately to
uh to a Palestinian State uh when it
comes to the um the G7 statement um and
um particularly with regard to the
question of ceasefire uh actually we
found real unity in the G7 on uh in this
moment um on that question I think the
communic very accurately reflects what
we discussed and what G7 Partners
believe for the next question Sasaki
Akiko with TV
Tokyo thank you for this opportunity and
thank you for coming to Japan so you met
with prime minister Kida yesterday and
what Ro could Japan play in the conflict
in the Middle East and what is the
expectation of Japan in this conflict
and also uh can uh these fire agreement
be leged between Israel and Gaza and
also what do you think is the final goal
of this conflict good thank you first uh
I was uh very appreciative of um being
able to see prime minister kashida uh
and of course to spend time extensive
time with uh with the foreign
minister uh and I can tell you first we
very much appreciate Japan's engagement
in helping to deal with the conflict
between Israel and Hamas and the
situation in Gaza I very much welcome
the foreign Minister's trip to the
region uh which was important as well as
her unequivocal condemnation of Terror
um the call for the release of hostages
and the announcement by Japan of $75
million in humanitarian assistance uh we
had uh a very productive discussion with
uh the foreign minister and I um about
um important uh vital issues like um
what needs to be done to minimize
civilian casualties to increase the flow
even more of humanitarian assistance
into Gaza and to prevent the spread of
the conflict to to other places and I
think the United States and Japan are
very clearly aligned um on what needs to
be done and what we're working to do uh
do together uh as um as I said earlier
in terms of the future I think there are
a few very basic things that um everyone
would want to achieve one is that there
can't be a return to the situation the
status quo before October 7th where uh
Gaza can be used as a platform to launch
the most horrific terrorist attacks that
anyone can imagine um and at the same
time it's vitally important that um
Palestinian
aspirations uh for
governing themselves for uh being the
ones to decide their own Futures are um
are realized uh and so we have to work
to both of those things at the same time
and that's what we're trying to do for
the next question Nik ching with
boa good afternoon Mr secretary how is
lunch do you enjoy love kushima Seafood
we we did yes we had uh uh excellent um
excellent Seafood here uh and um I can
tell you not just at lunch I think last
night as well uh and I commend it to
everyone but I have more questions Oh I
thought that was
it no I thought
but um regarding US President Joe
Biden's pled meeting with the Chinese
president cin ping next week is the
United States heading towards a
substantial change in its relationship
with the People's Republic China where
the US serve Fukushima seafoot during
ape and separately if I may do you have
anything on starting talks on a reliable
arrangement with the Chinese government
to prevent artificial intelligence
involvement in the decision making for
nuclear command and control as suggested
by some China observers including Henry
casing thank
you so iy first much as I'd like to I
really can't speak to the menu at Apec
It is Well above my pay grade um so stay
tuned uh we'll
see uh first I should say this we are
planning for a constructive meeting
between the leaders we're still working
on those plans um I think both sides
have acknowledged the importance of of
leader level channels um in managing the
the relationship
and uh we both agree that um we have an
obligation the United States and China
to responsibly manage the relationship
and that really uh in in in many ways um
starts and finishes with leader level
engagement so we've been working toward
this meeting since um my trip to Beijing
this this past summer uh there are a
number of areas and issues upon which we
um hope to make progress uh as well as
continuing to to manage the uh places
where we have real differences uh as you
know foreign minister wangi was just uh
just in Washington uh we had detailed uh
constructive conversations both about uh
areas of potential cooperation but also
about the the places where we have real
uh disagreements and um I think uh we
were able to speak very clearly very
candidly uh with each other and that too
uh is very important when it comes to um
the discussions that uh that our leaders
have um so beyond that I can't get into
the specific issues that they would uh
uh they would discuss in um in in any
such meeting um I can say as a general
principle uh for us that when it comes
to artificial
intelligence um that we believe that um
there artificial intelligence should not
be in the loop or making the decisions
about um uh how and when a nuclear
weapon is used uh that uh very much
reflects our our strongly held view in
our policy but as to what uh the the
leaders would discuss I um not in a
place where I can talk about that now uh
we're still working on um on the meeting
uh and working on the the agenda for any
meeting thanks and the final question
goes to fuchigami takayuki with Y
Murray hi secretary good evening welcome
to Japan thank you uh since the hamus
attack on Israel uh the US has been
required to respond on a three front as
you mentioned the Indo Pacific Ukraine
and the Middle East so you are traveling
around the world uh to respond to these
issues uh frankly how tough is it and
even in the midst of all these uh please
tell us again how important it is for us
to focus on Indo
Pacific well first of all thank you for
reminding me where I
am now in all seriousness I have to tell
you um that um I I always welcome any
opportunity to come to Japan um it's
almost no matter the the situation for
me it's a pleasure to be here to work
with uh uh with my Japanese colleagues
we um so value the relationship the
partnership uh the allyship that we have
with Japan and um it really is safe to
say without contradiction that's never
been stronger so in many ways it's um
always reassuring to be here even and
maybe even especially in times of
challenge because of that of that strong
partnership um more broadly look I can
tell you that um we are determined and
we are uh as we would say uh running and
chewing gum at the same time um the
indopacific is the critical region for
our future uh as I mentioned just um a
little over a week ago foreign minister
wongi was uh was in Washington for
extensive Ive uh discussions with with
me with uh National Security advisor
Jake Sullivan with uh with President
Biden as well um and we're working uh as
we just discussed on a meeting between
the leaders uh at Apec um we of course
will be spending the entire week next
week with colleagues countries from uh
from Apec again a demonstration of our
intense focus on the on the Indo Pacific
from here I'm going on to Korea and then
going on to India
again further evidence of the fact that
we're very focused on the Indo Pacific
and will remain so um couple of weeks
ago I was testifying before our uh
congress with Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin about the supplemental budget
request that the president has made of
Congress uh the extra funds that we need
to um do very important things uh and an
important component of that request are
additional funds for our work in the
Indo Pacific so all of this is um I I
think very compelling and clear evidence
of our Focus uh and it's uh vitally
important that even as we're dealing
with uh the a real crisis in in Gaza in
the Middle East uh we're also not only
um able but we're we're we're fully
engaged in um all of the interests that
we have in the Indo Pacific thank you
very much thanks
everyone you're watching ala we've been
bringing you live coverage of a press
conference that's been held by the US
Secretary of State Antony blinkin it's
in Tokyo and it's following a meeting of
foreign ministers um from members of the
G7 uh countries they've been covering a
a a significant amount of ground he did
say there had been an unprecedented
Unity of purpose and unity of action
amongst G7 members they were talking
about a wide range of subjects
predominantly the situation in the
Middle East but also talking about the
development of Ukraine the situation in
Ukraine also the indopacific situ
situation dealings with China but and
the US and also in fact artificial
intelligence and its impact possibly on
nuclear weapons controls I want to bring
in Katrina Yu who's our correspondent
who's been following that from Tokyo um
couple of things that that I noticed
there was he would was stressing the
fact that the G7 had agreed on demands
for humanitarian pauses to allow in
humanitarian Aid and the race of
captives and no attempt to blockade or
besiege Gaza what have you been picking
up on
Katrina well I think the most Salient
point is that while the G7 has shown
Unity here and there has been no
agreement on a ceasefire but the group
has managed to agree on a humanitarian
pause which would allow for humanitarian
corridors for much needed food water
health services and access for
humanitarian workers into the Gaza Strip
so he also spoke about some concrete
steps that the group group have agreed
to to minimize harm of civilians
although no details at all and no
mention as to whether the G7 will be
applying any pressure or urging Israel
to minimize civilian casualties actually
I was quite surprised at the the lack of
mention of of of Israel At All by
blinkin here he said that they would
work towards stopping extremist violence
on the West Bank uh and he said that he
would warn that the G7 had had warning
for any other countries any other groups
that were looking to expand this
conflict Beyond uh the Gaza Strip now
very interestingly as you mentioned
Lincoln mentioned that there were some
bottom lines that the G7 agreed to let
me just list them here no forcible
displacement of the Palestinian people
in Gaza uh which interesting we know is
definitely happening there no use of
Gaza as a platform for terrorism and no
blockade or Siege of Gaza and no
reduction in the territory of Gaza now
what was very interesting also he said
that the G7 agreed that Gaza should be
governed longterm by the Palestinian
people there was some mention of the
Palestinian Authority he made it very
clear uh that this would not be a
situation uh which would be an
occupation by Israel now that seems to
contradict what we've heard from
Netanyahu who has been saying that there
will be a security responsibility uh
possibly by Israel once this conflict is
over and blinkin was asked about that
and he said that he wouldn't agree and
that was not what the G7 agreed to but
he did say that there could be a
transition period so obviously that
allows for possible uh temporary
Presence by Israel there he said uh
answering a question about whether the
group had agreed to a ceasefire
considering some of the members had
raised a ceasefire and had voted for a
ceasefire previously at the United
Nations Anthony blinkin simply said that
those calling for a ceasefire had the
responsibility of explaining how a ceas
fly could happen without allowing Hamas
essentially to regroup and repeat the
actions of October 7 Katrina thank you
very much that's Katrina you bringing us
up to date from Tokyo let's bring in
tomamu he's a professor of public policy
Doha Institute for Graduate Studies he's
been with us over the last few hours or
so uh let's come back to that point that
Katrina was making where Secretary of
State blinkin referred to um the
Palestinian control essentially of both
Gaza and the West Bank that it must be T
the two must be tied together that
obviously invites questions about the
role of the Palestinian in authority and
and what of any situation it could find
itself in and even if Palestinians would
be willing to allow that
happen um Rob um how do I start I mean
um for sure Palestinians were not
present there at this conference uh nor
what they think or their opinions are
nor even what the palestin leadership
wants this is
blinkin uh and netanyahu's narrative uh
being more or less circulated through
this
conference
um uh the Palestinian president even the
Palestinian president mmud Abbas we
haven't he him personally talking about
a rule for the PA in Gaza we have heard
about some reports circulating but these
were all reports coming out from
different media agencies but the main
thing here is that again it's it's and
it's like history repeating itself it's
the Americas and Palestinians deciding
on on on on their behalf
how how should Palestinian live what's
work best and what doesn't work best for
Palestinian you mean the Americans and
and Israelis sorry yeah and Israelis and
and and and and as if as if they're in
control of of Palestinian lives and and
and Inspirations and and whatever
Palestinians want and it's again it's
this colonial mentality it's it's and
it's sad to see especially I mean the
Americans are repeting the same mistake
mistakes again Iraq Afghanistan and now
they think they can subjugate an entire
nation and also to decide what's good
and what's bad for it without be without
having any presence of a Palestinian in
this conference or a Palestinian view in
this conference a Legit View so again
it's it's I'm I'm I'm just astonished I
mean I understand also what's this G7 uh
the context of this of this conference I
mean and it's the US again
disillusion unable to digest the fact
that the world has moved Beyond G7 G7 is
not controlling the world anymore uh
there's a multipolar word an emergent
one we have the bricks we have China we
have Russia we have the three nations of
the South and we have seen the UN the UN
is the center of this it should not be
the G the G7 that takes decision of this
matters the UN we need an empowered un
and this not the G G7 but again it's
it's again the same Colonial mindset
they're they cannot get Beyond it and
just admit that the world has changed
and they have to respect the other uh
voices the other views of the world the
other parties the Big World the very
diverse world we live in which by large
supports Palestine and Palestinian
aspirations to be independent to live
free side by side by Israel but again
what we have seen is I mean I I this is
not blink this is the Israeli foreign
minister speaking not blinkin so blinkin
has to really step aside and speaks on
the American people behalf not on
Israel's behalf because we think bigger
of the US Us's Rule and engagement in
this process it should not be an
ambassador for Israel it should be an
ambassador for all a mediator for all
not for Israel and again another failure
for blinkin and for the US diplomacy
under this Administration it brings us
also back to the this ongoing discussion
that we've had over the last few hours
about um the the Benjamin netanyahu's uh
comment about the the security the
maintenance of security within Gaza at
the same time the US and is saying we
have no intention of allowing Israel to
be an occupying force in Gaza but it's
difficult to understand how Israel could
have a military presence inside Gaza to
demilitarize the the the the strip
without actually effectively occupying
it Rob I think because yes they talk
about it but they they really don't know
how to implement it that's the thing I
mean if you look at okay good news
relatively I mean giving the the scale
of the the crime here B news at least
he's committed to no forceable
displacement externally or internally we
know internally yes it already happened
there is uh forceable displacement
internally massive one inside the Gaza
Strip I hope they don't it doesn't
become external to Egypt or other
countries so let's see if if they're
they're sincere about committing if the
Americans are sincere about committing
to this goal uh uh you know no blades
find yes at least a recognition that
part of this problem the real cause is
the blockade Gaza has been under severe
military Israeli blockade for the last
15 years so okay it's an indication that
yes they might find a way
to uh to to allow Gaza to live freely to
to develop freely without any blades but
I think again is is how the how I mean
you need a partner you need the
Palestinian and the Palestinian
is fat and Hamas and the PLO and
independent people Palestinians are not
a tank or a building or an object you
can move from X to Y they need to engage
with Palestinians and so far again it's
history repeating itself it's
deification in Iraq they think they can
demolish ham
topple it down and and and get rid of
Hamas you can't you can't so again I'm
just saddened to hear these positions
and I'm also and I understand that even
most of G7 countries also they are uh
supporting a Seas fire not a
humanitarian POS it's only the Americans
and Israelis who want these humanitarian
poses which means that they want to
prolong the war allow it to happen to
come in but they they don't want a
ceasefire they're not ready yet to
engage in a ceasefire and then a
political discussion on the on the
future of Gaza tamarud we appreciate it
thank you very much indeed